---
title: My Acceptance of Apple (AKA Joining the Dark Side)
category: tech
tags: [apple, macbook, tech, macbook-pro]
---

Today I picked up my very first MacBook. I've grown up as a PC person and had my typical anti-Mac phase to go along with my PC enthusiasm. However, getting into computer science and the rise of the ultrabook market had started to soften my bias against the MacBook. I used to see MacBooks solely as overpriced, pretty laptops that are used by ignorant hipsters and consumers who know nothing about computers past how sleek the casing is. But with my MacBook purchase, I'm willing to give a little leeway to the MacBook user.

## The Value

One big part of my PC enthusiasm had to do with the fact that the term PC
basically encompasses everything non-Mac. So if you do your research like I do,
you can find great values on PC hardware that Apple would overcharge for. The
laptop I came into college with in 2012 is an Asus 15.6 inch powerhouse that
only cost $1100, but it trumped the 2012 MacBook's specs with a quad core i7
processor, 8gb of RAM, a dedicated nVidia graphics card and a full terabyte of
storage space. I'm still keeping my Asus operational because it is still
relevant in today's laptop market and it's super easy to upgrade (I've already
upgraded to a 500gb SSD and a wireless AC wi-fi adapter). However with today's
push for ultrabook specs with portability in mind, PCs are no longer the top
contender. Apple's 2015 upgrade of the MacBook Pro brought its flagship laptop
up to speed with the PC competition and then some. The baseline MacBook Pro
include OS X's Unix base (Unix = Linux & OS X, Unix is preferable to
programmers), a super nice retina display, and 10 hours of battery life for 3.5
pounds and less than one inch thickness. That battery life is still almost
unreachable by any PC ultrabook and with a student discount, the price of the
MacBook is no longer an issue. Although my situation is unique since the MacBook
was bought as a secondary laptop, I believe it is a great option for a primary
laptop.

## The Bias

As stated earlier, during my days as a PC user and enthusiast, I only saw
MacBooks as an accessory used by materialistic and dimwitted people who are too
shallow to see past the large price tag and the pretty casing. While I still
house certain feelings about other majors and certain MacBook users, my forray
into the Unix world with my computer science studies and projects has revealed
the value of the MacBook and OS X as a tool. I now no longer have to run a
virtual machine of Linux on my Windows machine (because I don't really want to
deal with double booting Linux and Windows) and I now no longer have to carry
around my 6+ pound behemoth of an Asus and worry about running down the battery
before my next lecture, thus giving the MacBook some relevant value so I no
longer see it as a pretty piece of metal. On top of that, the rise of Apple's
dominance in the tech market means that the tech industry's use of Macs is
widespread and I can no longer afford to ignore such a tool. While there are
most likely still a good amount of college students that tote around MacBooks
solely for the brand and the aesthetics, I am content with my MacBook purchase
for my uses as a programmer and a photographer.
